Visions and Ideals The dreamers are the saviors of the world.
As the visible world is sustained by the invisible, so men, through all their trials and sins and
sordid vocations, are nourished by the beautiful visions of their solitary dreamers.
Humanity cannot forget its dreamers. It cannot let their ideals fade and die.
It lives in them. It knows them in the realities which it shall one day see and know.
Composer, sculptor, painter, poet, prophet, sage, these are the makers of the afterworld,
the architects of heaven. The world is beautiful because they have lived.
Without them, laboring humanity would perish. He who cherishes a beautiful vision, a lofty ideal
in his heart, will one day realize it. Columbus cherished a vision of another world and he
discovered it. Copernicus fostered the vision of multiplicity of worlds in a wider universe
and he revealed it. Buddha beheld the vision of a spiritual world of stainless beauty and
perfect peace and he entered into it. Cherish your visions. Cherish your ideals. Cherish the
music that stirs in your heart, the beauty that forms in your mind, the loveliness that drapes
your purest thoughts, for out of them will grow all delightful conditions, all heavenly environment.
Of these, if you but remain true to them, your world will at last be built.
To desire is to obtain. To aspire is to achieve. Shall man's basest desires
receive the fullest measure of gratification and his purest aspirations starve for lack of sustenance?
Such is not the law. Such a condition of things can never obtain, ask, and receive.
Dream lofty dreams and as you dream so shall you become. Your vision is the promise of what you
shall one day be. Your ideal is the prophecy of what you shall at last unveil. The greatest
achievement was at first and for a time a dream. The oak sleeps in the acorn. The bird waits in the
egg. And in the highest vision of the soul a waking angel stirs. Dreams are the seedlings of realities.
Your circumstances may be uncongenial, but they shall not long remain so if you but
perceive an ideal and strive to reach it. You cannot travel within and stand still without.
Here is a youth hard pressed by poverty and labor, confined long hours in an unhealthy workshop,
unschooled and lacking all the arts of refinement. But he dreams of better things. He thinks of
intelligence, of refinement, of grace and beauty. He conceives of, mentally builds up, an ideal
condition of life. The vision of a wider liberty and a larger scope takes possession of him.
Unrest urges him to take action, and he utilizes all his spare time and means,
small though they are, to the development of his latent powers and resources.
Very soon so altered has his mind become that the workshop can no longer hold him.
It has become so out of harmony with his mentality that it falls out of his life as a garment is cast
aside. And, with the growth of opportunities which fit the scope of his expanding powers,
he passes out of it forever. Years later we see this youth as a full grown man.
We find him a master of certain forces of the mind which he wields with worldwide influence
and almost unequaled power. In his hands he holds the cords of gigantic responsibilities.
He speaks, and lo, lives are changed. Men and women hang upon his words and remold their characters.
And, son-like, he becomes the fixed and luminous center around which innumerable
destinies revolve. He has realized the vision of his youth. He has become one with his ideal.
And you, too, youthful reader, will realize the vision, not the idle wish, of your heart,
be it base or beautiful or a mixture of both. For you will always gravitate toward that which
you secretly most love. Into your hands will be placed the exact results of your own thoughts.
You will receive that which you earn, no more, no less. Whatever your present environment may be,
you will fall, remain, or rise with your thoughts, your vision, your ideal. You will become as small
as your controlling desire, as great as your dominant aspiration. In the beautiful words of
Stanton Kirkham Davis, you may be keeping accounts, and presently you shall walk out of the door that
for so long has seemed to you the barrier of your ideals, and shall find yourself before an audience,
the pin still behind your ear, the ink stains on your fingers, and then and there shall pour
the torrent of your inspiration. You may be driving sheep, and you shall wander to the city,
bucolic and open-mouthed, shall wander under the intrepid guidance of the spirit into the studio
of the master, and after a time he shall say, I have nothing more to teach you, and now you have
become the master. Who did so recently dream of great things while driving sheep? You shall lay
down the saw and the plane to take upon yourself the regeneration of the world. The thoughtless,
the ignorant, and the indolent, seeing only the apparent effects of things and not the things
themselves, talk of luck, of fortune, and chance. Seeing a man grow rich, they say, how lucky he is.
Observing another become intellectual, they exclaim, how highly favored he is.
In noting the saintly character and wide influence of another, they remark,
how chance aids him at every turn. They do not see the trials and failures and struggles
which these men have voluntarily encountered in order to gain their experience.
They have no knowledge of the sacrifices they have made, of the undaunted efforts they have
put forth, of the faith they have exercised, that they might overcome the apparently
insurmountable and realize the vision of their heart. They do not know the darkness and the
heartaches, they only see the light and joy and call it luck. Do not see the long and arduous
journey but only behold the pleasant goal and call it good fortune. Do not understand the process
but only perceive the result and call it chance. In all human affairs there are efforts and there
are results, and the strength of the effort is the measure of the result. Chance is not. Gifts,
powers, materials, intellectual and spiritual possessions are the fruits of effort.
They are thoughts completed, objects accomplished, visions realized. The vision that you glorify in
your mind, the ideal that you enthrone in your heart, this you will build your life by,
this you will become. End of chapter 6 Visions and Ideals